In previous part, we have already set up our project.
We already created one in HTML and some bootstrap CSS with CSS also as you can see.
So we need to create one JSP for student login and for admin login so you can use your HTML also.
But if I am using JSP, handling with JSP is very simple, also very convenient and you can customize
it easily.
So I'm going to with this student log in page first.
As I told you, I already created this part.
Let me show you the student login method.
So all these things are HTML tags.
As you can see, these are the HTML tags.
These to this tell this also because this is already cases but not HTML part.
So I don't want to include another CSS file here.
So I just embedded style thing here inside Java or HTML or JSP page only.
You can easily use CSS, HTML plus Java using this.
So this will be very helpful to create a student login page as I created already.
So this is basically link with style sheets and everything as you can see.
And this is titled Student Login.
So main part is about all these things.
So it will print this student log in and everything.
Font color is red, for which part?
So if I am going to specify message to this message letter, but what I'm doing, this request dot parameter
is basically the there is something anomaly like for username or password are different.
It will show that that user demand passwords are incorrect.
So for that purpose, we can use this part.
So for displaying this, you can use Java program.
I'm using your Java program inside.
So it is JSP page similarly for welcome or something message.
I can put this using JSP.
I did this.
So this is another form section I used here.
So as you can see, this is valid student.
If I want to use default package and I will not mention this part of dot controller.
But what I'm going to do, I'm going to create some packages inside on learning examination system package.
So why I'm doing this?
Because for the database fetching and executing data, I will create another for student and admin both
different.
So let's then for validate students and validate admins.
I'm going to create another things for this purpose.
I'm going to take one another servlet also.
So it will create tremendous amount of what we can see.
So let's so using default package, it's not very helpful.
Why for the managing purpose, book fixing and everything.
So for the nice project management, you should create packages within them.
So packages meaningful.
So packages you can create.
So what is the controller contents?
Controller contents.
All the controlling parts like log in page, signup page, validate page, everything.
So I mentioned it here later.
I will create this part with method post and I created one for username which is always remember this
should be meaningful part and password is if I click exit it should go to index attachment, otherwise
it will go to the login part.
Invalidates warranties.
Correct.
So this is all about these things.
So we are done with student loan, then admin log in JSP, which is basically similar to the student
login.
But remember here is the admin login with some another message I'm going to print and action is validate
admin.
So let us see what is the basics of JSP?
So JSP, as I told you, is nothing but Java language inside a HTML page.
So JSP is used to create web applications just like servlet technology, and it's very useful.
As you can see, I just can connect the Java program, insert the HTML to request dot get parameter.
So as you can see if you know the Java servlet part, if that request dot parameter is null, it should
print that value.
So its language is similar like Java, but there are some different tags as you can see.
So what is the advantages of GSP?
Our advantages of GSP is basically extension to the Java solids so we can use all the features of so
let's in JSP.
In addition, you can create implicit object, predefined tags, expression, language.
You can also use HTML, CSS.
As you can see, I just created stylesheet inside GSP only so you can do easy to maintain because JSP
is easily managed because we can easily separate our business logic with presentation logic.
So business logic is basically backend presentation logging is basically us.
So you can choose very mix over things.
But in servlet what is things?
In doing so it is only pure for business and with presentation, so it makes the business logical.
So in presentation logic also fast development.
No need to recompile and redeploy if JSP pages is modified.
We don't need to redeploy, read, compile all the project, but servlet codes need to update it again
and again and recompiled.
So here for this project we are going to create.
So let's also end.
JSP So consider while using the JSP, no need to redeploy it again, but for the solid part you have
to redeploy, recompile everything.
So you will see that I'm re compiling and rebuilding the project again and again.
But it just for the Soviet codes.
So what is the lifecycle of JSP page?
So if you know the lifecycle of Java, it's similar to the JSP basically translation of JSP page, compilation
of JSP page.
So translation of JSP, which basically is separating the HTML tags and GSP tags compilation of JSP
for that compilation of Java file class loading for the loader class instant donation.
If you created a object or something inside that JSP then initialization of JS that's methods again.
Then the request processing when it's done all the things class loading, we have to process that request
and destroys for the end.
You can see JSP that ended here.
If you create log in page JSP logic is indeed similar like that for that purpose.
So our lifecycle is translation compilation plus loading initial instant ionization initialization request
processing destroy as simple as that.
So no need to require all these things.
Like you should not remember this, but this is very important part you should remember because if you
have some errors while compiling then no need to check for your syntax or anything for that.
Like if you have some errors, like logical errors, like class loading errors, no need to check for
translation.
And that part you can directly check for requests, processing or not.
If request is processing.
If request is not processing at that part, the class is loading and everything is loading, but request
is not processing.
So there is some error with our database or something like that.
You can check.
So I will show you the general manager.
Pictorial manager.
So JSP.
JSP translator.
Then servlet file.
They need to be compiled.
It will create a one class file.
It will load to the Java runtime environment, then servlet objects, then buffer.
That is dynamic content.
Actually, buffer is for loading that page step by step.
If you have loaded all the pages inside the server as we are loading only then on the local so our machine
will take all the or our computer will take all the load of that thing.
But what this buffer will do, it will create some stack of pages and it will load time to time.
So Servlet JSP takes more time than servlet for loading purpose.
So.
But it's time we can see the code complexity while writing the JSP is very easy, so most of the times
we prefer JSP over the Java servlet.
So in the first part, I will tell you about the GBK collection inside JSP and everything.
So let us move to our this thing.
So as I told you, we have already created an admin log in part.
Let us check for the validation part.
So no need to worry how we can create inside the source package.
Just click right, click new and create java package or as your name.
I choose us on line examination system inside that office.
I'm going to create three sub packages which is controller for the controlling part or use model for
deploying all the model types.
Like if you have some DB database parts and everything, like if you are this is validating just part
but storing part and everything I'm going to use or is DB for database management and that connection
part everything.
So I separated these two different parts.
So let us see how we can create validate student So this is our package.
I'm importing this, you can just import this.
Also import java dot io dot star also.
So no need to write this again and again.
So it will take part of that always.
So.
Let me lead this part also because of all writing, these are some default things you can check here.
Okay.
So this is all about these things.
So we SDB and I'm going to create some part here for the database to run for the student database admin
for that information.
Student Diego For that information I'm going to be inside the model, so we will create in the next
part.
So this is all about these things.
Always remember, you can also use this also because I print everything again and again here for the
Java servlet.
What you can do is you can just put start here and you can take this, but for simpler purpose.
I'm putting this all the files I will print here in 14.
All.
Celebrities.
If you you have some errors with Java expert, you can go with the libraries and you have to load the
Java expert here.
So as you can see, I already loaded inside this JDK.
Or despite java expert if not loaded, just click here right and jar folder.
Download the Java X from that purpose and open it.
So.
This is Java is loaded so no need to worry.
It will show the error or not it will will remove and it will take care of that Java expert also.
So inside this I'm I will tell you the next part how we can choose this do post and everything method
so do post is method is same.
I'm requesting that parameter and I'm using this validate part here and some with status and something
instructions then do this part.
So I will tell you in the next part how we can create this and also the validate admin part.
So thank you for this.
And remember, always create some meaningful packages, name and some files through the JSP as I created.